Paul advised the Ephesians
in Ephesians 4:26, 27:
“Let the sun not set
with you in a provoked state,
neither allow place
for the Devil.”
Yes, some even have changed
their congregation
that they attended
because of nursing a grudge
and being offended.
What can cause
a grudge to develop?
One may not have received
certain privileges that one counted on
or one feels hurt
because of seemingly or actually
having been reproved
unjustly or too severely.
Some harbor a grudge
because they’ve been criticized,
especially
if this happens repeatedly.
We can help others not to harbor a grudge
by not saying things that hurt
and by not trying
to pull the straw
out of the other’s eye,
so to say.
So, what if somebody
offends us?
We are all occasionally guilty
of a tactless or even unkind remark,
and so we want
to also forgive others.
Don’t we want others
to forgive us our unkind remarks?
There’s nobody
that does not sin with his tongue.
Don’t talk with others about your grudge
except with a trusted friend.
Talking with others
may cause division
in the congregation
or family.
Let’s see
what the Bible has to say
in Proverbs 17:9.
It says:
“Whoever forgives a transgression
“seeks love, but the one
who keeps harping on a matter
separates close friends.”
Holy spirit
can help us to forgive.
If you cannot forgive
and forget,
then talk it over
with the person that hurt you.
Holding a grudge
can lead to serious sin.
We have Bible examples like Cain
who held a grudge against Abel,
leading to his murdering him.
Joseph’s brothers held a grudge
against him because of his dreams
and because he was
the favorite of his father.
Some of them
even intended to kill Joseph.
In contrast, Joseph did not hold
a grudge against his brothers.
Esau nursed
a murderous grudge against Jacob
because Jacob
got the firstborn’s blessing.
Esau even considered killing him
after the death of his father.
Herodias was nursing
a grudge against John
for exposing her adultery,
and this led to his murder.
But fortunately, we have
many fine examples in the Bible.
Job prayed in behalf
of his three companions
who had caused him
so much grief.
Instead of holding a grudge,
he prayed for them.
Jonathan did not hold a grudge
when he learned that David
would inherit the kingdom,
although David was
about 30 years younger than him.
Peter did not hold a grudge
against Jesus
who called him Satan,
or Resister.
Also, after being rebuked
by Paul, even publically,
Peter continued
to express love for Paul.
Martha was not nursing
a grudge against Jesus
for his loving counsel
related to preparing a meal.
John Mark
did not hold a grudge when Paul
did not want him to go
with him on a missionary tour.
He continued his active service,
traveling with Barnabas.
What about the silent treatment,
so-called silent treatment?
A definite obstacle
to communication
is the silent treatment, true.
And sometimes the victim
uses this as a kind of punishment.
However,
The Watchtower 2006,
September 15, page 23,
paragraph 16, said:
“This is not always
“a matter
of punishing one’s partner,
as it may result from frustration
or discouragement.”
It could border
even on depression.
One may just be
at a loss of words
without holding a grudge.
Some may be very outspoken
and offend others repeatedly.
Proverbs 12:18 says: “Thoughtless speech
is like the stabs of a sword.”
Thoughtless speech
is not legitimate communication.
Communication
should be carried on in a loving way.
Even if somebody did not want
to hurt another intentionally,
thoughtless speech,
exaggerations, and so on, still hurt.
If somebody stabs you
with a literal sword unintentionally,
does it not still hurt?
Therefore,
dispense with talking intensely.
Intense expressions
really cause offense.
This makes sense, doesn’t it?
Intense talk is like a storm;
gentle talk
like a pleasant breeze.
Intense talk is like a rock concert;
gentle talk like pleasant music.
Intense talk
is like an avalanche or a blizzard;
gentle talk
is like a beautiful, quiet snowfall.
Intense talk is like pouring
a bucket of water on a newly planted flower;
gentle talk is like gentle rain.
So let’s all be gentle men
and gentle women.
How something is said
is very important.
Paul wrote, and we can read that
in Colossians 4:6,
a text that is generally well known,
4:6 says:
“Let your words always be gracious,
seasoned with salt,
so that you will know how
you should answer [to each one].”
Endeavor to be gracious
in your tone of voice
and word choice.
As a recipient of unloving words,
resist the urge
to be sarcastic
and keep your volume down.
But as The Watchtower said
some time ago:
“Even whispered words
can be argumentative
if they are irritating
or demeaning.”
Avoid hurtful accusations,
such as “You don’t care about me”
or “You never listen.”
Some are argumentative by nature
or because of the way they were brought up.
Blurting out one’s views
or feelings may be hurtful.
Yes, blurting leads
to being hurtful.
Merriam Webster defines blurting:
“To say something suddenly
and without thinking
about how people will react.”
Therefore,
switch on the mind
before you start operating
the mouth.
If hurt,
why not excuse yourself
and walk away
for a short while to cool down.
Go into another room
or go for a walk
until you have regained
your composure.
This is not the silent treatment.
This is a quote from the Awake!
of 15th of December,
page 4.
Don’t let a grudge
pull you into a sludge.
A grudge is also a robber;
it robs us of peace of mind.
It’s like rust that slowly corrodes
the body of a car.
The car’s outside
may appear beautiful,
but under the paint
there’s a problem.
Love keeps out resentment
and grudges,
as a good roof
keeps out rain.
And “love never fails.”
In fact, our love for Jehovah
is tested by our love for our brothers.
Here’s a scary quote
from the Insight book, Volume 2,
page 1149:
An individual
is condemned by God
if he bears a grudge
for real or fancied wrongs
done to himself
or to someone else.
It’s that serious.
It means to be grieving the holy spirit.
Remember,
we must forgive others.
That’s what the Bible says
in Leviticus 19:18.
It says this:
“You must not take vengeance
nor hold a grudge
against the sons
of your people.”
But it doesn’t end there.
The second part of the verse
is just as important.
It continues and says:
“You must love
“your fellow [man] as yourself.
I am Jehovah.”
So we appreciate
that “love never fails”
and will overcome
any feelings of having
or harboring a grudge
against somebody.